What is a coronavirus?
Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are known to cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).
What is a novel coronavirus?
A novel coronavirus (CoV) is a new strain of coronavirus that has not been previously identified in humans.
Can humans become infected with a novel coronavirus of animal source?
Detailed investigations found that SARS-CoV was transmitted from civet cats to humans in China in 2002 and MERS-CoV from dromedary camels to humans in Saudi Arabia in 2012. Several known coronaviruses are circulating in animals that have not yet infected humans. As surveillance improves around the world, more coronaviruses are likely to be identified.
What are the symptoms of someone infected with a coronavirus?
It depends on the virus, but common signs include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath, and breathing difficulties. In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death.
Can coronaviruses be transmitted from person to person?
Yes, some coronaviruses can be transmitted from person to person, usually after close contact with an infected patient, for example, in a household workplace, or health care centre.
Is there a vaccine for a novel coronavirus?
 Yes,there is  vaccine, example covaxin, covishield developed in India.
Is there a treatment for a novel coronavirus?
There is no specific treatment for disease caused by a novel coronavirus. However, many of the symptoms can be treated and therefore treatment based on the patients clinical condition. Moreover, supportive care for infected persons can be highly effective.
What can I do to protect myself?
Standard recommendations to reduce exposure to and transmission of a range of illnesses include maintaining basic hand and respiratory hygiene, and safe food practices  and avoiding close contact, when possible, with anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness such as coughing and sneezing.
Are health workers at risk from a novel coronavirus?
Yes, they can be, as health care workers come into contact with patients more often than the general public WHO recommends that health care workers consistently apply appropriate
What WHO recommendations for countries?
WHO encourages all countries to enhance their surveillance for severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), to carefully review any unusual patterns of SARI or pneumonia cases and to notify WHO of any suspected or confirmed case of infection with novel coronavirus, Countries are encouraged to continue strengthening their preparedness for health emergencies in line with the International Health Regulations (2005).
Where can I find more information about known coronaviruses?
For more information on MERS-CoV <a href="http://www.emro.who.int/health-topics/mers-cov/index.html">here</a>, For More information on SARS-CoV <a href="https://www.who.int/csr/sars/en/">here</a>.
what is covid-19?
COVID-19, otherwise known as coronavirus disease 2019, is a new infectious disease caused by a previously unknown virus called SARS-CoV-2. The virus is part of a family of coronaviruses which are responsible for lots of different illnesses from the common cold to the flu. But this new strain can be more severe in some people.
what is covid?
COVID-19, otherwise known as coronavirus disease 2019, is a new infectious disease caused by a previously unknown virus called SARS-CoV-2. The virus is part of a family of coronaviruses which are responsible for lots of different illnesses from the common cold to the flu. But this new strain can be more severe in some people.
what is covid19?
COVID-19, otherwise known as coronavirus disease 2019, is a new infectious disease caused by a previously unknown virus called SARS-CoV-2. The virus is part of a family of coronaviruses which are responsible for lots of different illnesses from the common cold to the flu. But this new strain can be more severe in some people.
when did covid-19 start?
The virus was discovered in Wuhan, China in December 2019 and has since spread around the world. It was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization in March 2020.
symptoms?
fever, drycough, tiredness, loss of taste or smell.
effects?
Some people have reported experiencing continued symptoms after having COVID-19, such as fatigue, breathing problems and neurological problems. This includes people with less severe cases of COVID-19, as well as those who have needed hospital care.
how long are the symptoms?
The average time for symptoms of COVID-19 to develop is five to six days, but it can take up to 14 days for people to show symptoms.
what should i do?
please wear mask, maintain social distance, sanitize frequently and stay at home safe.
who is affected?
Anyone can get COVID-19 and become seriously ill. The likelihood becoming severely ill is higher for people over 60 and those with certain underlying health issues, including high blood pressure, heart or lung problems, diabetes, obesity or cancer.
is there cure for covid?
So far, no drugs are proven to specifically treat COVID-19. As scientists and doctors continue to learn more about COVID-19, our knowledge of, and ability to treat the virus will improve.
how does covid19 spread?
COVID-19 is passed on through contact with respiratory droplets (droplets of saliva or mucus from the nose or mouth) from someone who has the virus. These tiny droplets are spread when an infected person sneezes, coughs, breathes, speaks or sings.
how does coronavirus spread?
COVID-19 is passed on through contact with respiratory droplets (droplets of saliva or mucus from the nose or mouth) from someone who has the virus. These tiny droplets are spread when an infected person sneezes, coughs, breathes, speaks or sings.
how does the virus spread?
COVID-19 is passed on through contact with respiratory droplets (droplets of saliva or mucus from the nose or mouth) from someone who has the virus. These tiny droplets are spread when an infected person sneezes, coughs, breathes, speaks or sings.
How to stop the spread?
please wear mask, maintain social distance, sanitize frequently and stay at home safe.
What if I have been in contact with someone who has COVID-19?
please take a self test now to take necessary decisions.
who are at risk?
Around 15 in 100 people who get COVID-19 will become severely ill and develop difficulty breathing, in which case they will need hospital care. A small number of these people will become critically ill and need intensive care.
Can CoVID-19 be caught from a person who has no symptoms?
The main way the disease spreads is through respiratory droplets expelled by someone who is coughing. The risk of catching COVID-19 from someone with no symptoms at all is very low. However, many people with COVID-19 experience only mild symptoms. This is particularly true at the early stages of the disease. It is therefore possible to catch COVID-19 from someone who has, for example, just a mild cough and does not feel ill.
should i worry?
Illness due to COVID-19 infection is generally mild, especially for children and young adults. However, it can cause serious illness: about 1 in every 5 people who catch it need hospital care. It is therefore quite normal for people to worry about how the COVID-19 outbreak will affect them and their loved ones. We can channel our concerns into actions to protect ourselves, our loved ones and our communities. First and foremost among these actions is regular and thorough hand-washing and good respiratory hygiene. Secondly, keep informed and follow the advice of the local health authorities including any restrictions put in place on travel, movement and gatherings.
is covid same as sars?
No,SARS was more deadly but much less infectious than COVID-19, There have been no outbreaks of SARS anywhere in the world since 2003.
covid spreads through animals?
There has been one or two instances, but there is no such proof, Mainly it spreads through droplets.
can i spread covid if i am vaccinated?
UAB's Infectious Disease Expert Dr. Michael Saag says fully vaccinated people can become infected asymptotically or with minimal symptoms and still spread COVID-19 to others.
What are the chances of getting Covid-19 after vaccine?
Dr. John Greene, the chief of infectious diseases at Moffitt Cancer Center, says the COVID vaccines are up to 95% effective. That means about one in 20 people who are fully vaccinated could still get COVID-19 if exposed to the virus.
should i wear mask?
Yes, you should wear a mask whenever you are in a public place where you will encounter other people. 
what to do if i feel sick?
take our self test now!
Why is it called coronavirus?
Corona means “crown,” and coronaviruses have a “crown” of protruding points on their surface that give them a characteristic appearance when seen under a microscope. Coronaviruses are a whole family of viruses,there are many.
types of coronavirus?
Six species of human coronaviruses are known, with one species subdivided into two different strains, making seven strains of human coronaviruses altogether.
how many variants exist?
Six species of human coronaviruses are known, with one species subdivided into two different strains, making seven strains of human coronaviruses altogether.
what is the indian variant?
While the B.1.617 may be more transmissible, research shows that current Covid-19 vaccines will provide strong protection. Scientists are scrambling to understand what role B.1.617, the variant discovered in India, will play in future surges of Covid-19.
Can COVID-19 cause severe disease?
While COVID-19 is spreading rapidly, most people will experience only mild or moderate symptoms. That said, this coronavirus can cause severe disease in some people.
which mask to wear?
Fabric masks are recommended to prevent onward transmission in the general population in public areas, particularly where distancing is not possible, and in areas of community transmission.
Does COVID-19 disease cause heart attacks?
New Delhi, May 19 (ANI): A new paper from the emergency medicine doctors highlights that the coronavirus can cause cardiovascular complications including heart attacks, heart failures, and blood clots, which in turn can lead to strokes.
What are some of the symptoms of COVID-19?
Most people who are infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus have respiratory symptoms. They start to feel a little bit unwell, they will have a fever, they may have a cough or a sore throat or sneeze. In some individuals, they may have gastrointestinal symptoms. Others may lose the sense of smell or the sense of taste.
what is black fungus?
Mucormycosis, or “black fungus”, usually infects people whose immune system has been compromised, causing blackening or discolouration over the nose, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties and coughing blood.
Where does black fungus come from?
lack fungus, which is found in soil or decaying matter inside homes, doesn't affect healthy people. Chances of infection are more in those with low immunity,” he said. People who have been on steroids should take care of these things.
is there treatment for black fungus?
As Black Fungus infections are on rise, there has been sudden rise in demand for anti-fungal drug Ampho B, which is commonly used for the treatment of the infection.4 days ago
who are getting black fungus?
According to experts, people with diabetes are more prone to getting the black fungus infection. Amid the surge in COVID-19 infections, Delhi is also "frequently reporting" cases of black fungus, also known as mucormycosis, sources told news agency ANI earlier today.
does black fungus spread?
It's also more likely if you have a skin injury like a burn, cut, or wound. And cases have been reported in people with COVID-19. Mucormycosis isn't contagious.
what are symptoms of black fungus?
Symptoms of Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, include headache, fever, pain under the eyes, nasal or sinus congestion and partial loss of vision. It affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening in people who are diabetic or have suppressed immunity
is coronavirus a disease?
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by a newly discovered coronavirus.
What should I do if I have symptoms of COVID-19?
Stay home and self-isolate even if you have minor symptoms such as cough, headache, mild fever, until you recover. Call your health care provider or hotline for advice. Have someone bring you supplies. If you need to leave your house or have someone near you, wear a medical mask to avoid infecting others.

